Hello welcome back so of course I'm boxing today we're going to be talking about orphant Glock's.
It's going to be more of a show and tell tutorial will use the blotching don't call more blocks and
or info information for examples and we'll learn from there.
So let's go to blog dot com and then go to stat's here and here at the bottom you'll see a option called
orphaned blocks.
So go ahead and click on that.
And this will show us some recent orphan blocks and that will help us understand what's going on.
So what can we see here.
Well the first thing is how do we read this diagram.
This diagram is basically our block chain but vertically going from you know like this is the most recent
block and then going down or actually not the most recent book was reading a book somewhere here.
And then the blockade just keeps going like down.
And so there's this dot dot dot means like they skipped a lot of blocks in here because they were not
interesting for this specific analysis.
They're the words in your orphan book so you can only see the orphan blocks here.
But essentially this is our whole block chain except for the parts that dot dot dot so you can see here
4 9 7 3 7 3 4 9 7 8 so they skipped from here to here.
They skipped about 500 blocks.
Everything was normal and then an orphaned transaction happened.
So they showed us how they dealt of what happened there and not how they dealt with just what happened
to it.
And then again so you can see 4 9 7 8 7 0 4 9 7 7 1.
These are consecutive than dot dot dot then these are always consecutive than dot dot dot and so on.
So that's how to read this chart and keeps going on.
So you can like scroll to the bottom and then you can go to the next page and it will show you more
if you like.
So let's have a look at an orphaned transaction what is going on here.
Well let's look at the most recent one that we have in this example.
Over here we had block 5 0 3 9 4 8.
Everything you know like was going OK fine in our book chain books were being added one after the other.
So before that was 9 4 7 before that was 9 4 6 9 4 5 and so on and 9 4 8 was added by BTC dot com that
mining pool found this blog.
This is how many transactions as ins are inside that block.
That's that's a time when they added it.
OK.
And so then what happened.
Well after that as you can see 18 minutes passed so a bit more than 10 10 is on average or sometimes
more or less because it's a statistical thing to find the hash anyway.
So you can see here 18 minutes past so 23 28 on the 12th of January.
What happened is at 23 28 0 0 7 G-B minors found the next block.
But at the same time at 23 28 33 which is how many seconds is that.
That gives us like 26 to six seconds later slush pool.
Remember that glove that mining pool in Czech Republic they also found a block and at the same time
so they both claimed it to be block 5 0 3 9 4 9.
And they said you know this had this main transaction.
This had me in the central section already shows you that they're not identical blocks simply by seeing
that they have different number of transactions in.
And we discussed this in the course of what happens when this situation occurs.
Well what happens is at that point in time two versions of the chain will exist so G-B miners with this
block will continue trying to grow that chain and slush pool of this block wall to continue trying to
grow that chain so that the nodes in the network which are close to slush pool will have a car will
have been relayed this block nodes that are close to G-B miners will have been relayed this this block.
And so we have two competing networks of two competing chains at the same time.
And what happens from there is that ok then whoever builds on the next block.
They then like eventually remember the golden rule the longest chain wins.
So whoever builds the next block first they will take over the chain unless they build on the next block
at the same time again and then it will be whim bills and X-book.
So basically whoever has more has power in wherever in whichever chain out of the two competing chains
has the highest rate will win eventually.
And remember that's our solution back going back to the larger one when we talked about why the Byzantine
general problem and then we talked about the consensus broken log chain.
This way by structure because as progun this way we get a consensus.
As long as we have 51 percent of the high Schrade on one of the all the other side.
And that's exactly what happens.
And as you can see here the red X means that this block eventually lost that this block combined by
slide pool ended up to be in the losing chain.
So what happens then.
That's the interesting part right.
So this blog is staes and then it keeps growing.
Lisa's dot dot dot keeps growing into the chain chain continues evolving.
This one stops what happens.
Well all of these transactions that were in the block they get released back into the temples.
They go back into the meme pools of whatever nodes accepted this block.
Eventually this ball of this chain wins and then so these these guys have to release the transaction
back.
Maybe some of these transactions were amidst these transactions that were listed here.
Very likely because minor select transactions by the highest fees so the highest fees transactions would
have been here and here so they would have been released out of here and back into the meme pools all
of the notes that accepted this block.
And then right away this block would be would be so all the and all of the nodes in this chain would
switch to this blog and then right away the transactions that were here and were actually here and also
they would go back into the main pool and then they would go right out of the temple.
They would exit the temple because they're in that in that block that actually turned out to be good.
But some transactions some transactions will be released back into the temple and they will stay in
the temple because they were not in this block as well.
And so what that means is that it's always important to wait at least for a couple of confirmations
before D before considering your transaction to be successful and confirmation we mean several blocks
on top of the current blog.
So if you if your action ended up in one of these blogs if you have if you don't wait for several blocks
to be built upon it then what will happen is you might let's say if you received money from somebody
to sell your bicycle they send you money and you give them the bicycle and then it turns out that your
block was not valid.
So because because this happened and so Yoshua that transaction gets released back into the pool and
they get their money back and they keep the bicycle because now you can't get hold of them or something
like that so if that happens that that's the cold the double spend problem and we'll talk more about
that in the coming tutorial on the 51 percent attack.
But for now that's what's important.
Not so usually the rule of thumb is to wait for six confirmations.
So wait for six confirmations before you consider your transaction to be successful because otherwise
it might end up a double spend problem.
And so here is what happened here.
So we also had a what's it called an orphan block.
This is called The Orphan block.
Let's have a look.
More so quite a few orphan walks all over the place.
So I was looking for an example look at the times so you can see that this one was a minute later.
So this one was mine earlier this one was mine later.
But if you look here this one was my own letter.
So this one is actually mine first.
First 26 minutes 37.
This one was mine twenty 26 minutes forty five fifty four seconds.
So it really doesn't matter who my dad first in terms of time was right.
What matters is who has the longest chain.
In the end which block results in the longest chain in the end that's what matters at the end of the
day.
Yeah.
So there we go.
That's how orphant blocks work.
So the main takeaway from today is this can happen.
It's normal.
It's part of the experience part of the block chain set up and it happens usually because there's a
time lag because when this bloke was mind it took more than you know took more than 26 seconds for this
information to get from Gibeah miners all the way to slushed pool.
Makes sense right.
I don't know where GP miners are but slush pools in Europe there isn't that many there aren't that many
mining pools in Europe so wherever G-B might Where is the miners in regards to miners.
Know doesn't tell us doesn't tell us what your mind says
G-B miners
doesn't say where everyone is.
OK well we can definitely find out somehow where you'd be Myers's and it will tell us like we might
give us a hint why the why it took some time to get from here to here.
Yeah and so that's why this is going to happen or from books and happen.
And the rule of thumb is wait for at least six confirmations So for example cryptocurrency exchanges
they will have a threshold.
They will you know they will not confirm they will not send you your money if you exchange like Bitcoins
for ethers or that an all like Bitcoin cache or something like that is you say as you do that exchange
they won't send you your money right away.
And that's the reason why because they are waiting to make sure that even after the transaction has
one conversation is still wait until a certain number of confession which might be like five or six
confirmations for based on their regulations or based on their terms and conditions they will waste
couple of conversations because they're afraid they want to minimize the risk of double spending they
want to minimize the risk that this transaction that they just did with you it will end up in one of
these orphan blocks.
And you know yes there's like two three four confirmations but at the same time there's a parallel chain
excuse me and then that's when those transactions will be reversed back to the airport and they've already
given you the other cryptocurrency that you were after and they can take it back from you unless you
of course you know they contact you and they say you probably give it back to them but they're not sure
about that.
So they don't they don't want that risk.
So that's what often blocks are.
Check out this this Web site.
Have a look and see see what kind of examples you can find here.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then.